well we all know don't we the reasons
why the United States intervened in the
Gulf the way they we did in the end
killing between 100,000 and two hundred
thousand iraqis as both the 303 I think
Americans killed either in combat or in
combat related accidents and we
certainly have restored to power the
legitimate authority in Kuwait in fact
we've done it applying that age-old all
american political principle of one man
one vote in this case one man the in
there one vote his we heard bush back in
august didn't we at the very beginning
say they saying that our way of life was
at stake we had to do something about
that invasion of kuwait we also heard
didn't we besides the way of life was a
stake we had to intervene to protect the
access to the energy resources of the
Persian Gulf another one was that we had
to stop naked aggression what we did not
get our alternative interpretations of
the events that occurred and that's what
I want to speak about here tonight it's
my opinion that the United States needed
an international crisis an international
threat to replace the crisis in Europe
that largely disappeared with the
collapse of communism and the chaos in
the Soviet Union why in order to keep
the permanent war economy going to
justify continuing the situation we're
in more than well more than fifty
percent of the federal budget goes to
military purposes well this means that
the military expenditures in the united
states are the motor of US economy and
they have been that ever since about
nineteen fifty it's worth reviewing the
history because that's where this crisis
i think comes from this sought for
needed crisis in early nineteen fifty
there was extreme worry at the highest
levels of the truman administration that
the united states was likely to
turn to the conditions of the Great
Depression of the 1930s and so early in
1950 the decision was taken that this
domestic economic problem was going to
be solved through militarism that is
through rearmament in the United States
and through us financing of the
rearmament of Western Europe
particularly western Germany the
document which provides the analysis of
the world at that time and the u.s.
place in the world in the internal
situation in the United States was top
secret for 25 years in 1975 it was
accidentally or through error released
and published it is known as NSC 68 it
was written by NSC standing for National
Security Council it was written by Paul
Mitzi and it is a very detailed document
the main operative conclusion though was
this is a quote from the document the
United States and other free nations
were within a period of a few years at
most experienced a decline in economic
activity of serious proportions unless
more positive governmental programs are
developed well the solution adopted
those more positive governmental
programs was expansion of the military
but Truman could not get this program
through Congress at first there was
opposition there and public opposition
to the enormous new taxes that this
program would require he went on
national radio declared a state of
national emergency and said what Bush's
remarks about our way of like being a
state reminded me of he mustered all the
hype and emotion he could and Truman
said among other things he said our
homes our nation all the things that we
believe in are in great danger this
danger has been created by the rulers of
the Soviet Union in his speech he also
called for massive increases in military
spending for US and European forces
quite apart from the needs in Korea well
there was no threat from the soap
Union they were still rebuilding from
the rubble of World War two in which
they had lost 20 million people they
were no threat but they were
manufactured from 1950 on from the time
of Korea on as a grave threat to the
United States and that became the
justification for this program which
truman through manipulation of the query
korean war had been able finally to get
through Congress the result was that in
the first two years that is the two
years between 1950 1952 the US military
budget more than tripled from 13 billion
dollars in nineteen fifty two forty four
billion dollars in 1952 and during the
same two-year period u.s. military
forces doubled to 3.6 million people
under arms this was the beginning of the
permanent war economy in the united
states the korean war by the way went on
for three more years after it could have
ended in the end 34,000 us were dead
more or less more than 100,000 wounded
and the total casualty count was in the
millions it is worth recalling that
because from 1950 on the Soviet threat
was the justification the justification
for the permanent war economy and the
justification for these enormous
military spending expenditures what does
that mean and far as the United States
is concerned well it means that we have
not addressed or begun to solve the many
domestic crises that we all know exists
there's no need really to go through
this litany of the worst educational
system in the developed world one in
three in this country illiterate either
totally or to the degree that they
cannot function in a society based on
the written word healthcare not just the
cost but the fact that 40 million people
in this country have no health insurance
the only developed country in the world
with no national health plan and on and
on the fact that only about what is it
sixty percent about two-thirds of the
eligible voters register to vote
and of those who register only about
eighty percent actually votes so only in
the end fifty percent of the eligible
voters vote in national elections in
this country and that means that a
president is elected with around
twenty-four twenty-five percent of the
potential vote the litany goes on the
environment the infrastructure finding a
prevention and cure for AIDS the
violence we see everywhere and in every
form in the United States when you put
all these things together I don't think
anyone would arguably had drugs of
course anyone would argue that we have a
domestic society in profound crisis and
the reason why over all these years
these crises have not been solved is in
my opinion because those who really
control and rule the United States don't
want them solved imagine what would
happen if we had and informed electorate
if we didn't have the worst educational
system if we had a negligible perhaps
illiteracy rate here there might be an
informed electorate we might be debating
real substantive issues in the electoral
process or in the political process in
the United States there might be a
threat in this country of real democracy
if we solve the domestic crises in this
country people might clamor to
participate if there was a real debate
there might be a threat of a third party
I mean a second party in the United
States
there are all kinds of threats to
elitist control of the United States if
we were to solve these domestic crises
in my opinion and it is for this reason
that we have always needed this foreign
threat and this foreign crisis in order
to justify putting the money into
military expenditures instead of
converting the economy once and for all
too human purposes during those 40 odd
years of the Cold War the CIA has been a
very important factor or tool or
instrument of the President of the
United States in waging what is
continuing today this new world order of
george bush or new international order
seems to me to be nothing more really
than the institutionalization of the
north-south dimension of the old Cold
War that is the war against the third
world for control of their natural
resources their labor and their markets
you
factor or two or in
strument of the President of the United
States in waging what is continuing
today this new world order of george
bush or new international order seems to
me to be nothing more really than the
institutionalization of the north-south
dimension of the old Cold War that is
the war against the third world for
control of their natural resources their
labor and their markets that is where
the fighting really took place as in
Vietnam this north-south dimension of
the Cold War the war against the third
world continues today as we sit here
with all its racist content and we and
our allies that is the United States and
its allies are just as dependent if not
more on the resources of these countries
in the third world as they ever were and
that dependency is not going to
disappear it's going to keep on growing
through the years so what I think Bush
has in mind is through this Persian Gulf
crisis to send a message to any aspiring
third world leader that third world
radical nationalism will not be
tolerated is a way in which in fact we
are beginning to treat the third world
or continuing to treatment third world
like we treat third world people right
here in the United States they know
their place they have a role to perform
and they are expected to do it if they
don't if they make trouble they're going
to be smashed that is what happened of
course with Iraq I believe that Bush
encouraged the Hussein administration
and Saddam Hussein himself to believe
that they could get away with taking
over Kuwait with impunity and there are
many signs that point in this direction
Iraq never really formally recognized
the independence of Kuwait they have
always claimed that Kuwait was part of
the Iraq taken away by British
imperialism which is indeed the case
last April Assistant Secretary of State
John Kelly testified testified before
Congress that the United States had no
commitment to defend Kuwait on july 25th
the US ambassador to to iraq April
last week meets with the same among
other things the US ambassador says to
Hussein mr. president I have a direct
instruction from secretary of state
state Baker to emphasize to you that the
United States has quote unquote no
opinion on your disputes with Kuwait
particularly your border disputes with
Kuwait she also said I have an
instruction from President Bush to seek
better relations with Iraq president
Hussein in response in several places
says that what Kuwait is doing through
its over production is the equivalent to
war against Iraq they are destroying the
Iraqi economy he said and we are going
to take strong action he as much as said
that they were going to go to war well
in this meeting with those 100,000
troops on the border not one word from
the US ambassador of warning to a sane
not to invade well put all those things
together and you have to ask yourself
the question why did the Bush
administration do nothing during that
last week between the ambassador's
meeting with the sane and the invasion
itself to prevent that invasion they
knew those 100,000 troops were there but
not at one word from Class B to the same
about it my conclusion is that they
wanted the invasion that this was the
site selected for the new international
crisis that would congest ified
continuation of the war economy in the
United States it was totally avoidable
objectively speaking but because of the
tradition in the United States after all
we are a warrior culture we do still
live in the age of imperialism and the
demands of this system required this
crisis I go back to the CIA for just a
moment because it's worth recalling that
the agency from the very beginning from
the very beginning in the 1940s was used
not only to collect intelligence from
around the world processes and presented
to policymakers like the president for
their decisions or to help them in their
decisions obviously that's what a an
intelligence service should do but the
CIA was used all through these years to
subvert the democratic processes of
other
at the very first meeting of the
National Security Council which was set
up in the same law that established the
CIA as the National Intelligence Service
this was October 1947 one month after
Truman signed this bill into law
establishing the CIA and the National
Security Council as the highest
policymaking body in national security
and foreign affairs at the very first
meeting in October 1947 the decision was
taken to set aside ten million dollars
for the CIA to intervene secretly in the
Italian elections coming up about six
months later the CIA was not just used
in these electoral operations you know
the media operations were vast and I'm
sure they still are media operations
basically means that the CIA pays a
foreign journalist to publish the CIA's
material as if it were the journalists
own there were CIA interventions of all
sorts but one area i want to mention of
special importance and are what are
known as liaison operations liaison
operations are all those activities at
the CIA undertakes with the intelligence
and security services of other countries
early on the CIA began to set up
security and intelligence services in
other countries for purposes of internal
security one of the first places was
Greece there was a civil war you know in
Greece 1947 to 1949 the United States
intervened on the saw on the side of the
far right in Greece and the US side one
in the aftermath the CIA set up a
security service known as the KY p or
keep KY p being the greek initials for
CIA they gave the same name this
security service was used to keep the
far-right in power in greece for nearly
20 years but when that power was
threatened with upcoming elections in
1967 the CIA and this service this KY p
organized a military coup in greece
which was successful leading to seven
years of military dictatorship in greece
of neo-fascist strike during that period
torture became an institution in greece
thousands of Greeks were for
into exile I could give you many many
examples of this in Iran for example in
1954 the CIA I 1953 the CIA undermined
the elected democratically elected
civilian government of the day of
Mohammad Mossadegh overthrew that
government installed the Shah as
military dictator and in the aftermath
set up a service called the SAVAK this
service over the 25 years of the Shahs
regime became famous for its torture
chambers and its assassinations of the
Shahs political opponents 1954 the US
the CIA intervenes in Guatemala
undermines the civilian government the
government is overthrown and from 1954
on Guatemala has had one succession of
military rulers after another military
dictatorship in the aftermath of this
operation in 1954 the CIA set up an
Internal Security Service and then
others but from these services set up
and supported by the CIA all through the
years came
jovenes in Guatemala undermines the
civilian government the government is
overthrown and from 1954 on Guatemala
has had one succession of military
rulers after another military
dictatorship in the aftermath of this
operation in 1954 the CIA set up an
internal security service and then
others but from these services set up
and supported by the CIA all through the
years came the death squads in other
words the services established by the
CIA then spawned these death squads in
Guatemala the very same thing in El
Salvador you can be assured as yours
your of your own name that for the last
10 or 11 years the CIA has been working
in there day and night with those
Salvadoran security services and
military collecting information giving
it to those services which in turn are
the same things as the death squads
information on activists in human rights
field the student leadership trade
unions so forth and those have
constituted the 75 thousand or so people
who have been murdered over 10 or 11
years in El Salvador disappeared many of
them others tortured to death their
bodies thrown along the sides of the
roads nobody knows how many have been
killed in guatemala by these military
regimes which started with the CIA some
say 100,000 some say 125,000 some say
150,000 who knows nobody will ever
really know the the exact number who
have been killed but you multiply this
around the world because I'm only
mentioning a couple of examples of the
CIA operations there have been now 44
years of this and they have existed all
around the world and put those
operations together with the overt
military interventions and the enormous
cost in human life of those such as
Grenada Panama Iraq Vietnam for example
all of those and you get to you get the
picture of this expansionist extremely
aggressive US foreign policy
well I don't think it's enough really to
describe what the CIA does or US foreign
policy in general it's also necessary to
ask a couple of questions and going back
to the Gulf for just a moment consider
this analysis of what really happened in
the Gulf you know that the United States
has been exporting war material for four
decades beginning right around nineteen
fifty with the document i mentioned
earlier tanks guns of every sort weapons
planes ships and military equipment of
every sort well with a national debt of
three and a half trillion dollars in
this country 800 billion of it owned by
foreigners for handling of that debt it
seems that it was only a matter of time
before the US Armed Forces were sent
abroad as one more export because what
we did in the Persian Gulf crisis was to
send a bore abroad that enormous amount
of military hardware but this time we
also exported the people to operate it
it was armed forces sent abroad to
protect the resources and the regime's
these family dictatorships of the sheikh
tins of the persian gulf what we did in
fact was what we in the United States do
the best we made war and we were
financed in this exercise by the people
who make things that people around the
world want cars VCR s and so forth
finance mainly by the Japanese and the
Germans and that puts the United States
as it's going to have a permanent
presence in the Persian Gulf in a very
strong position visa V the Japanese and
the Germans who are not there militarily
and they are going to depend to a great
degree for their energy resources at
least from that region on US policy that
is why they went along with the war that
is an interpretation of the Gulf crisis
and the other question that I wanted to
raise is why we do these things as a
country
why we do please as a society as a
nation why do we do these grisly things
abroad I believe strongly that until we
have fundamental change in the United
States domestically in the domestic
system until we have some kind of real
democracy in this country participatory
democracy where people have a say and
where we end the re-election of ninety
five to ninety seven percent of
incumbents at every election where there
is a real political debate until we
change the domestic system we're going
to have elitist control of the United
States we're going to have these foreign
adventures and the grisly things as I
mentioned that the CIA does abroad so
the real problem is here at home in
changing the domestic system in bringing
about a conversion of the economy to
human purposes solving the domestic
crises and getting the people out of
office who are in there to back a
continuation of the permanent war
economy
you